README.md, before:

# What is `ganda`?

A utility app that you can pipe urls to and it will request them all in parallel.  It optionally also allows saving the results of each request in a directory for later analysis.

Given a file with a list of IDs in it, you could do something like:

    cat id_list.txt | awk '{print "https://api.example.com/resource/%s?apikey=foo\n", $1}' | ganda
    
and that will pipe a stream of urls into `ganda` in the format `https://api.example.com/resource/<ID>?apikey=foo`.

Alternatively, if you have a file full of urls (one per line), you can just tell `ganda` to run that:

    ganda my_file_of_urls.txt

If you give `ganda` a `-o <directory name>` parameter, it will save the body of each in a subdirectory.

`ganda` is designed to be able to save the results of hundreds of thousands of requests within a few minutes.

# Installing

Compile with golang, use either 

    go get -u github.com/tednaleid/ganda
    
to install in your `$GOPATH/bin` (which you want in your `$PATH`). Otherwise you can clone the repo and 

    go test && go build 
    
to create the `ganda` binary and then copy it somewhere into your path.

# Usage

    $ ganda help
      NAME:
         ganda
      
      USAGE:
         ganda [options] [file of urls]  OR  <urls on stdout> | ganda [options]
      
      VERSION:
         0.0.6
      
      DESCRIPTION:
         Pipe urls to ganda over stdout or give it a file with one url per line for it to make http requests to each url in parallel
      
      AUTHOR:
         Ted Naleid <contact@naleid.com>
      
      COMMANDS:
           help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command
      
      GLOBAL OPTIONS:
         --output value, -o value         the output base directory to save downloaded files, if omitted will stream response bodies to stdout
         --request value, -X value        HTTP request method to use (default: "GET")
         --header value, -H value         headers to send with every request, can be used multiple times (gzip and keep-alive are already there)
         --workers value, -W value        number of concurrent workers that will be making requests (default: 30)
         --subdir-length value, -S value  length of hashed subdirectory name to put saved files when using -o; use 2 for > 5k urls, 4 for > 5M urls (default: 0)
         --connect-timeout value          number of seconds to wait for a connection to be established before timeout (default: 10)
         --insecure, -k                   if flag is present, skip verification of https certificates
         --silent, -s                     if flag is present, omit showing response code for each url only output response bodies
         --no-color                       if flag is present, don't add color to success/warn messages
         --retry value                    max number of retries on transient errors (5XX status codes/timeouts) to attempt (default: 0)
         --help, -h                       show help
         --version, -v                    print the version
       
# Example

This command takes the first 1000 words from the macOS dictionary file, then turns each of them into a [Wikipedia API](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/API:Main_page) url.

Those urls are then piped into `ganda` and saved in a directory called `out` in the current directory.


    head -1000 /usr/share/dict/words |\
    awk '{printf "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=%s&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json\n", $1}' |\
    ganda -o out --subdir-length 2
    
Output (shows hte HTTP status code of 200 OK for each along with the resulting output file that each was saved at):

    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aam&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/95/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aam-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=A&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/71/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-A-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aal&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/99/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aal-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=a&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/69/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-a-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aardwolf&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/31/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aardwolf-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aalii&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/91/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aalii-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aa&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/ae/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aa-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=Aani&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/7f/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-Aani-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=Aaron&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/db/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-Aaron-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aardvark&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/c4/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aardvark-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    ... 990 more lines
    
As `ganda` is designed to make many thousands of requests, the files are not saved in the root of the output directory.  Instead the url is hashed and turned into a 2 character subdirectory (similar to how git stores its objects).

example run:

![ganda example run against wikipedia API](https://cdn.rawgit.com/tednaleid/ganda/gh-pages/images/ganda-example.gif)

Commit message:

add --throttle/-t parameter to limit requests per second

README.md, after:

# What is `ganda`?

A utility app that you can pipe urls to and it will request them all in parallel.  It optionally also allows saving the results of each request in a directory for later analysis.

Given a file with a list of IDs in it, you could do something like:

    cat id_list.txt | awk '{print "https://api.example.com/resource/%s?apikey=foo\n", $1}' | ganda
    
and that will pipe a stream of urls into `ganda` in the format `https://api.example.com/resource/<ID>?apikey=foo`.

Alternatively, if you have a file full of urls (one per line), you can just tell `ganda` to run that:

    ganda my_file_of_urls.txt

If you give `ganda` a `-o <directory name>` parameter, it will save the body of each in a subdirectory.

`ganda` is designed to be able to save the results of hundreds of thousands of requests within a few minutes.

# Installing

Compile with golang, use either 

    go get -u github.com/tednaleid/ganda
    
to install in your `$GOPATH/bin` (which you want in your `$PATH`). Otherwise you can clone the repo and 

    go test && go build 
    
to create the `ganda` binary and then copy it somewhere into your path.

# Usage

    $ ganda help
      NAME:
         ganda
      
      USAGE:
         ganda [options] [file of urls]  OR  <urls on stdout> | ganda [options]
      
      VERSION:
         0.0.7
      
      DESCRIPTION:
         Pipe urls to ganda over stdout or give it a file with one url per line for it to make http requests to each url in parallel
      
      AUTHOR:
         Ted Naleid <contact@naleid.com>
      
      COMMANDS:
           help, h  Shows a list of commands or help for one command
      
      GLOBAL OPTIONS:
         --output value, -o value         the output base directory to save downloaded files, if omitted will stream response bodies to stdout
         --request value, -X value        HTTP request method to use (default: "GET")
         --header value, -H value         headers to send with every request, can be used multiple times (gzip and keep-alive are already there)
         --workers value, -W value        number of concurrent workers that will be making requests (default: 30)
         --response-workers value         number of concurrent workers that will be processing responses, if not specified will be same as --workers (default: 0)
         --subdir-length value, -S value  length of hashed subdirectory name to put saved files when using -o; use 2 for > 5k urls, 4 for > 5M urls (default: 0)
         --connect-timeout value          number of seconds to wait for a connection to be established before timeout (default: 10)
         --throttle value, -t value       max number of requests to process per second, default is unlimited (default: -1)
         --insecure, -k                   if flag is present, skip verification of https certificates
         --silent, -s                     if flag is present, omit showing response code for each url only output response bodies
         --no-color                       if flag is present, don't add color to success/warn messages
         --retry value                    max number of retries on transient errors (5XX status codes/timeouts) to attempt (default: 0)
         --help, -h                       show help
         --version, -v                    print the version
       
# Example

This command takes the first 1000 words from the macOS dictionary file, then turns each of them into a [Wikipedia API](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/API:Main_page) url.

Those urls are then piped into `ganda` and saved in a directory called `out` in the current directory.


    head -1000 /usr/share/dict/words |\
    awk '{printf "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=%s&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json\n", $1}' |\
    ganda -o out --subdir-length 2
    
Output (shows hte HTTP status code of 200 OK for each along with the resulting output file that each was saved at):

    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aam&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/95/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aam-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=A&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/71/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-A-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aal&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/99/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aal-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=a&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/69/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-a-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aardwolf&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/31/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aardwolf-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aalii&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/91/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aalii-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aa&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/ae/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aa-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=Aani&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/7f/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-Aani-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=Aaron&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/db/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-Aaron-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    Response:  200 https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&titles=aardvark&prop=revisions&rvprop=content&format=json -> out/c4/https-en-wikipedia-org-w-api-php-action-query-titles-aardvark-prop-revisions-rvprop-content-format-json
    ... 990 more lines
    
As `ganda` is designed to make many thousands of requests, the files are not saved in the root of the output directory.  Instead the url is hashed and turned into a 2 character subdirectory (similar to how git stores its objects).

example run:

![ganda example run against wikipedia API](https://cdn.rawgit.com/tednaleid/ganda/gh-pages/images/ganda-example.gif)
